Even though the government’s New Deal discriminated against African Americans, it did ultimately address the large unemployment rates and lack of confidence that arose during the Great Depression. 

The New Deal was sneakily unfair to African American workers. According to a speech by W.E.B. Dubois in June 1934, African American workers were hit harder than the average by unemployment and falling wages. On top of that, the government’s legislation to create jobs often didn’t cover the traditional jobs of African Americans, and authorized lower pay and segregated work teams when it did. 
This made it extremely difficult for laid off African Americans to find jobs and create stable lives. 

However, for the common citizen, the government’s New Deal offered reliable jobs to combat unemployment. In a 1939 interview for the Federal Writers’ Project Papers, Geneva Tonsill talked about the Works Progress Administration, a government effort to create jobs while fueling public works. After she lost her job at a bank and could not get accepted anywhere, Tonsill applied to the WPA and was extremely thankful for the courage and self respect she found in her job. Her interview demonstrates that even skilled workers such as bankers had a difficult time during the Depression, but were still supported by the government’s work programs. The Federal Writers’ Project likely published this interview for a few reasons. First, the simple publishing of the interview was likely a job for a previously unemployed writer, and a job for somebody to distribute the interview in a newspaper or radio. Additionally, the interview was published in 1939, when the Depression was well underway but not over yet. This suggests that the WPA was active during the time in which people were seriously in need of jobs, and even during this time, it was advertising for more people. This demonstrates how the government’s work programs were able to efficiently lower the unemployment rate, and the sheer capacity of worker that they could handle. Due to programs like these and other programs such as the Public Works Administration and Civilian Conservation Corps, the unemployment in the United States fell from over 12 million in 1933 to under 1 million in 1944. 

To address the nation’s growing lack of Confidence, the government implemented programs such as Social Security and the FDIC. According to a Poster from the Social Security board in the late 1930’s, the government established a group to aid widows over 65 and other dependant parents. The poster depicts an older person, leaning on a fence and smiling. The figure appears secure and comforted. Advertisements like these and the social security programs that backed them helped Americans feel confident that the government would protect their future. The social security board likely published this advertisement to trigger this feeling amongst Americans; in the late 1930’s, the United States was in the middle of the depression. Because the depression was caused by consumer’s lack of trust in the economy, the Social Security board published this poster to improve this confidence so that Americans would feel safe. This would result in more investment of money into the economy, and an increased willingness to give out jobs. So, the board made the poster comforting and easy to look at, aiming to trigger this response in viewers. Other government programs such as the fireside chats and the FDIC furthered this effect on Americans. The fireside chats featured the confident and well liked FDR, who spoke in simple and transparent terms about the plans of the government. The FDIC inspected and insured banks to verify that they were fit to handle peoples money. Together, these systems helped Americans feel confident in the economy again, allowing an influx of money.
	
	
Overall, the government attempted to provide relief for Americans through the New Deal, and although it excluded African Americans, this plan improved the lack of confidence and unemployment of the depression. 

      - - Kyle's DBQ